The library committee and everybody else agreed that the veterinary medicine library would remain separate, but all the other branch libraries would come to the central library, except chemistry would not agree to that.
And finally, I was chairman of the library committee at this point, and Horace Byers, a very world-renowned geoscientist, was our last president of academic affairs.
He had come from the University of Chicago.
And so we had a public library committee hearing on this matter in the old Cushing Library.
And the key point came that night when the then head of the chemistry department stood up and said that they had been hesitant to say this publicly, but that they now believed it was time to give the real reason and to state it bluntly as to why chemistry should remain separate.
And he said something to the effect that
Chemists worked so much harder than anybody in any other discipline.
And their time was so much more valuable than those in other disciplines.
And I remember he particularly said something to the effect, we don't have time to waste walking to the library like you people in the humanities do.
we must have our own.
And at that point, Dr. Byers interrupted and he said, this meeting is adjourned, the chemistry branch library will be closed and we'll move over.
But it was saying that the time of a chemist was more important than the time of anybody else.
There wasn't much
space in the Cushing or Gilchrist Library buildings when you got here?
Weren't they pretty well crowded?
They were pretty crowded.
And talking about the chemists, we had two collections of chem abstracts, one in the chemistry building and one in the library.
And the library paid for both subscriptions.
And so they had their library with the chem abstracts, which was their major source.
But no, we were getting pretty crowded is why they started building.
And when I left to go to graduate school, the fourth floor addition was a deep hole.
And when I came back, they let us walk through and look at it.
And we had never seen any plans or had nobody in the library had any input as to what we needed
or where we were going to put things.
They just let us walk through and look at the facilities, and there were restrooms for men and women on every floor.
This was unusual.
When I came back and they showed us the staff lounge, I looked at it, and I looked at the library, and it was so much bigger than Cushion, and I said, we will be out of this in 10 years.
And everybody looked at me and patted me on the shoulder and said, well, she's kind of losing it.
She's been out of contacts, and we'll be here for a long time.
And in 10 years, we went into the sixth floor addition in 1978.
So it wasn't a hallucination either.
Now, in the old cushion building,
the only restrooms were in the basement.
And there was no staff lounge, as people know, staff lounge now.
The men's room, the men could sit, I don't know where they sat, I think they sat in the kind of a stairwell area for their coffee breaks.
There were like two small rooms in the ladies' room.
One had the stalls and the sink, and the other was a little lounge area that had
two couch things, like two cushioned couches and a chair, and we had a little shelf with a coffee pot on it.
And everybody brought coffee.
I mean, this week you may bring a pound of coffee and sugar and next week somebody else did.
And when the men wanted coffee, they handed their coffee cups in through the door to get their coffee and went to take their break.
Was there, do you remember, was there even a refrigerator?
I don't think we had a refrigerator.
And there certainly wouldn't have been a micro.
I doubt there was a stove.
No, you had a coffee pot.
Where did you and your friends eat lunch?
Well, you could sit outside if you wanted to.
You could sit in the little lounge area and eat.
Some people, if they had a little money in their pockets, they might go over to the MSC and get a sandwich.
Most everybody either brought their lunch or went home for lunch, because a lot of the people that worked in the library were wives of students, and they lived on campus.
Where did Joel park?
I parked, my first parking place is now where the Harrington Education Building was, or in front between the Cushion Building and the Academic Building.
That was all parking.
Were there, were there stick, did, were there parking stickers at first when you got them?
No, we didn't have parking stickers.
We just parked.
But I can't remember, I know when we started paying for parking, they started assigning you particular lots.
And I know as buildings became being built, I parked right outside the library.
Like I said, whether it was for the Harrington building in that parking lot or between Academic Building and Evans.
And then I went out to what they call lot seven, which I think is closer to
not all the way out to Zachary, but out in that area.
Because I remember I was parked there one day, and I went to pick up my car, and a construction crew had backed into it.
And, of course, there was no, I was by the fence, and there was no way of proving that their construction had ripped a hole in the paint in my roof.
And then I also parked in the area, got to move up to where I was parking in front, the chemistry building, and where the fountain is.
Now they have a fountain area there or a plaza there.
That was close to what they called the M.E.
shops.
And I took classes over in that area.
Most of my classes were in the academic building.
And the ladies room in the ME shop was in a storeroom.
And so, or the commode for the ladies was in the storeroom.
So you had to make sure that there was nobody going into the storeroom when you went in because just the shelves were dividing the area.
And Academic Building had one of the few, in the library, those were one of the few buildings that had ladies rooms on campus.
As a junior staff member, did anybody give you any guidelines, any things to be sure and do and to be sure not to do?
I know back in those days that I guess we had a dress code.
which now there's no dress code.
What was it then, you think?
The women wore heels and hoes and dresses.
And I remember when we did, pantsuits first came out, you wore a matched pantsuit.
The top and the bottom of your pants had to match.
You could wear a vest, but it had to come below the hips.
And I remember we were doing some shifting and I was on a shifting crew
And I came in in a pantsuit to do the shifting in the stacks.
And Mrs. Castle said, you need to go home and put on a skirt.
And I said, but Mr. Woodward or Dr. Dyke had said that the ones that were shifting, since they were doing so much bending and stooping, could wear slacks.
But they had to have a matched top, not just a blouse and slack, a pair of pants that you have.
There was no jeans.
And let's see, I'm assuming no one could have any food or drink at their workspace.
I don't remember anybody did because I was in reference and we were out in the public.
So you certainly didn't there.
So we didn't there.
Now I don't know about the technical services.
People are behind the scenes.
In those early years, do you remember any pranks or jokes that happened in or around the library?
Students or anybody else?
Oh, I remember we had, we've always had our people that do things for attention.
I remember we had the flashers when that was a popular
revolt of students or whatever where the guys would come through and maybe they were standing on the third floor balcony in the library with a raincoat on and he had opened it up and that's all he had on and before you could get to him he could always get back into the stacks and get clothes on or disappear.
We had in the
Evans Building, we had the famous toe-biter, and that made national news.
Describe that.
Okay, the girls, it was always the girls, well, it wasn't always the girls, but we had one girl that caught him.
He'd be studying in a study carol, and if you kicked your shoes off,
all of a sudden you came up with a bloody toe and there was a guy that would crawl under the desk and he would actually, it was always the big toe, but he was always getting.
And sometimes he would use a pair of pliers, but most of them would just bite them.
And there was one girl that caught him and she brought him downstairs and she had a pretty good lock on his ear twisting it and he,
He didn't particularly care to be caught by her because she was twisting his ear pretty hard.
Was this a student?
Yes, it was a student coming around.
Do you remember what happened to him?
Of course, he got loose and plunged, and I think he was out for a while and had some counseling and all like that, but it did make the news.
What about any other jokes you remember?
Was there ever mischief on the...
library materials ever relocated?
Oh, that was, we always had locate cards, because I did the locate cards.
When you couldn't find a book, you'd fill out a little card to ask where the books were.
And I know a lot of times you had to, you kind of knew where the books were thick or thin, because the thin books, they would kind of shove back and let the other books cover so they could come back to them.
Or they would
take a pin over the call number and a H call number could be transformed into a B call number just by the use of a pin until we got the the sailing system which you had the plastic overlay which you couldn't do it and if a book was missing you'd say okay now what is another call number similar like the B's to go to the H's that you would find them hidden and a lot of times when the students would
write down the information for you to look where it said call number, they would put something like 846-0831.
Well 846 is a literature call number, that is a call number in the literature, but it's also a telephone number.
So call number to them to some meant a telephone number and others meant the call number on the book.
So you always had, if it was, you'd look at the title and you'd look at the call number they wrote down to see was this a telephone number they were writing down or was it actually the call number of the book.
Did, were there any incidents of where someone apparently spent the night in the library?
We probably had people spending the nights in the, in the old stacks because there were like eight stack levels in the Cushing Building and four, and three floors and then
When they added on, they had four floors and the stacks didn't mesh up except for the second floor.
I know, I believe it was in 68 when a lot of the rioting, racial riots were going on.
There weren't that many black, Afro-American, which name is currently politically correct now, on campus.
And they demonstrated here on campus.
And what they did, they said there's nothing in the library that reflects our heritage, our culture, there's nothing in the books
And I was on duty the night they did.
They came in and went to the collection in the E-collection, which has the Negro history and all, and checked everything out.
Every book that they could find that dealt with Africa, the blacks, or any area like that, went to the circulation desk and checked them out.
Then they turned around and turned them in.
And this kind of bogged down circulation because we had just started being automated and a lot of this was done by hand.
So you had book truck after book truck, several thousand books checked out and turned in almost immediately.
Of course, you had to go through and they sorted the books.
Things checked out every day was done in a batch mode of cards and they were done at night.
for the next day, so they couldn't discharge them until the next day, so they were just stacked up in the, and the students weren't doing any malicious tearing up of stuff or defacing property.
They just very quietly came in and checked them out and then sat down in the lobby to see if somebody would say something to them about doing this.
Nobody said anything.
As far as you know, were these A&M students?
They were A&M students.
And there was no white opposition to what they were doing?
There were no white students stopping them or anything?
No.
They just let them do it.
Their revolt, some of the agitators, it didn't, it fizzled because they didn't.
They just said, well, let them do it and they didn't get in trouble.
But I know that for several years, I was charged with going to the cataloging department
and doing a bibliography with every book that came in that had a subject heading of black or Africa or anything related, and produced this for about three years.
And it went to one of the deans to show them, yes, we were buying materials, but they didn't have a valid complaint about nothing and being in the library.
And I probably still have copies of those bibliographies somewhere in my files.
During that era, Earl Rudder was the president.
Did you librarians see him much?
He would come in, his dog came in a lot.
Ranger.
Ranger came in, and Ranger and Miss Revly Mam were the only dogs or only animals allowed in the library or in any other building.
Were either of them ever a problem?
Never a problem.
And I think there's more security with Ms.
Reveley, ma'am, now than it was then.
But I know those two kind of roamed the campus.
And if they wanted to sit on something, that was fine.
If they wanted to lie down, you didn't disturb them.
They'd lie down under the... And they were very well behaved.
Better behaved than a lot of the students are today.
In that era, was there anybody in the central administration that library folks thought was a key ally of the library?
Yes, I cannot remember.
And there was one man that was notorious because when he, I cannot remember what his name was.
He would leave that Koch building, which was where most of the material was, and his secretary would get on the phone and call us in the library and say, Dr. So-and-so is on the way to the library, because when he came in, he wanted something yesterday, and he would call.
What was his specialty?
Do you remember?
I can't remember that.
Because this wouldn't have been Wayne Hall, Vice President of Academic Affairs.
No.
Bill Graff, Engineering.
Now, I wouldn't say his name starts with a P, but I can't remember.
I can't remember.
I've been trying to think of his name lately because I was just thinking of some of the ones.
And then we had Dr. Perry.
He's a more current person that was an advocate.
You're talking about Bill Perry?
Bill Perry.
Oh, yeah.
Good guy.
And several others have been our friends.
I do remember when we first started, when Dr. Rudder, when he started trying to build things, and he would go to the board about starting the programs.
He said, yeah, we can start a doctoral program.
We might not have anything at all in the collection.
We have to go out and buy collections.
It did that.
Other friends of the library, allies that you all
We always had a friend in Mr. Evans and he let us know that he had willed us or given us the Little Eva Plantation in Louisiana for funds for a Jim, let's see, Jeff Dykes collection, Western.
Jeff Dykes.
He was a friend and helped start our Special Collections area in the Western Livestock Industry.
Another note for the typist.
The Little Eva Plantation was acquired by Mr. Evans 40 years ago or so, and he gave it to Texas A&M some years later, and at about that time I became
a part of the administration and the library as dean of faculties, the library was one of my special concerns.
It did not report directly to me, but most library matters went across my desk.
And I was to watch over the Little Eva Plantation.
And one of my great worries was that because of the almost sacred
nature of the Little Eva Plantation being part of the scene of part of the events in Uncle Tom's cabin.
Little Eva being one of the characters of Little Eva in Uncle Tom's cabin being buried, I believe, on the plantation there, the person who was the subject for it.
It was always my worry that there would be some kind of racist event there and that A&M would catch a burden of blame.
so that I was very, very grateful when Mr. Evans eventually made arrangements with A&M that he would take Little Eva back and give us far more in value and property in Texas in exchange for it because I always worried about Little Eva being a difficult one for A&M to deal with.
One of my worries was that if Mr. Evans had died at that time,
And then if A&M put the plantation on the market, would the politically correct observers accuse A&M of not treating the property appropriately and so forth?
Let's see.
As the library began to grow in the late 60s and early 70s, Mr. Rudder died, President Rudder died in early 1970 and Jack Williams became president.
November the 1st, 1970.
Did you all see much of President Williams?
Dr. Williams was an advocate of the library, and he really wanted to build the humanities and social science area.
And he spent time and effort in trying to build that part of the collection, where in the past it had been specifically agricultural, mechanical, engineering.
And I know Dr. Rutter had started trying to the change of times when women started coming on campus.
He had a battle with that with former students and current students and everyone in this that it was going away from the all-military school.
And Dr. Rutter would say, yes, we could have this program, but we wouldn't have it, not check the library holdings.
and we would be playing catch-up.
And now we've got some good collections.
Our nautical archaeology program was one of the ones that he wanted us in that program, and we had to go out and buy a collection to meet that, but our nautical archaeology program is noted worldwide now, and that was one of the ones that he wanted to help build the image of the university.
After Dr. Williams got here, did you all see him in the library?
He'd come into the library, and he would, he knew.
We were lucky, and a lot of the administrators on campus used the library, and they knew us by name and by face.
Who would be notable as fitting that description?
Well, Dr. Williams came in.
Bill Perry came in.
Those are the ones that, and Dr. Perry's still here, and I don't care where I see him, you know, and I'm one of, I don't know how many hundreds that are on campus now, but he calls me by name.
He says Lynn rather than knowing I'm just at the library.
Dr. What about Calhoun?
Dr. Calhoun came in, son.
He was, he was a little more reserved, I think, than some of the others.
But then that's probably his personality.
Vandiver?
Vandiver was here a lot.
Dr. Vandiver was here a lot.
And he would come in, especially at night, to see what the students were doing, how the library was being used.
And he was using the library, too.
And he was using it and not expecting us.
He was one of the, we had some people that came in and they said, I want, and they wanted it presented to them on a quote, silver platter.
But Dr. Vandiver was one of the ones that was actually digging into the materials to find the material.
Clint Phillips came in a lot too.
And he used it, and he was a friend of the library too.
Another note to the typist.
I was chairman of the library committee when one of the first additions to the Cushing Library was being planned.
And as the library committee reviewed the plans, we noticed that there were no study carrels, particularly Coe's carrels, in the original plan.
And so I hurried to Mr. Rutter's office
and gave him a long and I had hoped well prepared explanation of why the carrels were a necessity and we had to have them and just couldn't have a library without them.
And finally Mr. Rudder looked at me and smiled and he said, first of all, you've got to explain to me what in the hell a carrel is.
He didn't know and I did.
And he said, oh, okay.
And he said, the design architect for this project is here in the building.
I'll call him in.
Well, he called the architect in and told him that what I had been there to talk about and that he, President Rudder, wanted carrels added.
The architect told him that the plans were already finished, it was too late, they could not be modified.
Mr. Rudder glanced at me and gave me a wink out of one side of his eye where the architect could not see and then turned to the architect and very firmly said, well, I guess we'll just have to hire us a different architect then.
Suddenly, the design architect realized that he could change the plans after all.
And so we got some carols designed in there.
What was it like for those of you on the staff as these physical additions were being made?
What kind of problems did that cause for you all, the shifting and the moving?
We, the libraries, people in the library were the ones that were doing all the moving of the books.
And sometimes we'd get a little extra student help.
But I know I shifted many, many a book.
And it's kind of heavy when you're shifting some of the oversized books and you're less than five feet tall and you're working with somebody six feet tall and you're shifting the books that can work you down pretty good.
And it's far about these carols.
They were open to graduate students and professors.
And at first they said,
a year at a time, then it was down to a semester.
And the graduate students had to be writing or defending their dissertations.
And usually, they were such popular that they could, there would be two assigned at a time.
And a few of the professors were a little disgruntled because they were going to get, use them as a hideaway office.
But we said, no, you cannot use it as a hideaway office.
You have to be using the materials.
and they still have them assigned with a key, and we reserved the right to go in and check to make sure that books were checked out that were in there.
During this tenure, professors could check out journals, and you'd go to someone's office and there would be half of your journal collection on their shelves while they were using it, but you'd look at them and the dust would be
very thick and we had to start calling in the journals because of the high use, the use of the library was going on.
We always had people in what we call now instructional service program.
Dr. Costa was one of the English ones that came over.
Richard Costa.
C-O-S-T-A.
And I remember I was always telling them how to use biological abstracts, and my background was not in the sciences, but we would have a corner of the old reference room in the Cushing Building, which we used to
to give our presentations to the classes.
Like I said, students seem to be using them more.
You would see them more studying, but then they had a, the reference area had the big tables that they were using now where there's more individual carols throughout the building than we had at the beginning.
Do you remember some examples of outlandish requests that someone made of a reference librarian, something that was completely?
I know I did, and I don't know what happened to the bibliography or the history of barbed wire for somebody that was doing a book.
And I worked on, for the extension people, the Green Bug Project for some professor, extension agent in, I think it was in Amarillo.
And he published several publications for that.
I worked with Richard Waters in the, I don't remember one of these, was Dr. Waters in history or sociology?
I can't remember what department he was in, but we had quite a bit on the Chicanos and African-American.
These are some of the early studies that now we're having programs in.
And it seemed like we'd always have someone start a program then and it was kind of, well, why are you doing that interest?
But now it's a common program that is a noted program at the university or is a trend.
nationwide such as our multicultural studies.
I started ordering stuff in that before they ever decided to have a multicultural program.
I started ordering children's literature
And back in those days, you did not order children's literature.
You did not order sports material.
Sports were for fun.
Now you have a program on tourism and parks and recreation and teaching of sports, how to teach sports as well as to play baseball for fun.
You had how to teach it.
And we have a good education program in the kinesiology where they're using these.
The books for children's literature, they were used in the education department, but you didn't have kiddie literature books.
This wasn't something that you used at a university, not stopping to think that this was something that you had to have to teach.
in the school system, but we're building that now.
And I'm guessing that when you began, the strength of the collections in the Cushing Library were primarily in agriculture, engineering, and the sciences.
Right.
But we began to really.
Branch out.
To move along.
Who was the librarian, who was director of the libraries in the 70s?
Dr. Dyke.
Yeah.
Jim Dyke.
Describe him and his manner and style of leadership.
I think he had, he brought into it, he was very professional.
And one thing he did is make an announcement and he said, I think our librarians and our people that are especially in the public service area, they need to, you know, look professional, dress professional.
And if a man needs to get a haircut, he can take the time out and he will not have to make up the time to go get a haircut.
And a woman could go to the beauty shop because she's presenting an image for the university.
So you had release time, which now you do it after hours on your lunch hour or something like this.
And I think the people appreciate it.
They didn't abuse it.
They appreciate it.
And I think we looked better in our demeanor to the public.
I was the chairman of the library committee.
I first interviewed him, I think at Emory maybe.